Now that we've completed roughly the holistic setup of our application and have all of the main features
ready to roll, what we need to do is look at our app and say, hey, could we polish this a bit more?
And one of the things that I think about when I think about Polish well, I think about animations and
animations are very important because they are the cornerstone of what creates what is considered a
great user experience.
You see, stationary objects are kind of like pops into view.
It's not really a great feeling.
Now, React Native provides two components, the animated component, which is granular and can allow
you to kind of create very, very custom animations.
And then there's the layout animations for global layout transactions.
Now, if we look at the animated API versus the layout API, what I want us to do is kind of see, well,
what can we do here?
And if we see you right over here, if we look at the feeding in component, we can see that if we tap
to play here, it will fade into view and we can kind of look at what the code looks like.
We have a Fada animation.
That's a that's a reference.
This is a react reference.
So they utilize that to to reference an object and keep that reference.
Moyse So in memory and we'll use something called the animated timing to take the feed animation that
was just currently of value zero and transition it to value one over ten thousand milliseconds.
And we'll call that the feed animation and then we give that feed animation, that value that's going
to go from zero to one over ten thousand milliseconds.
We'll give it to the opacity and by giving it to the opacity, what's going to happen is going to feed
into view.
Now, iOS is having a difficulty loading, but over here we can see it fading into view over ten thousand
milliseconds, which is equivalent to ten seconds.
And so that's slow fade that we're getting.
That's what we want to achieve.
We want to feed some of using to do kind of create this non stationary feel.
This Jianqing is almost that, you know, some apps can to have.
So we're going to do is in our animations folder.
We're going to create a new folder called Animation's.
And that folder is going to contain all of our animation.
Type of components, and so you can expand on this and test out different animations and so the animation
we want to create is the feed animation that animation dogs.
And so you may have been thinking throughout the course meal, why do you use the dot dot animation,
dot component, thought style?
Well, that's basically for search purposes.
If I were to go in my search here and I work to say dot component, now I can find all of my components
that I'm looking for.
Similarly, for my animation, I can quickly reveal all of the animations.
And if I wanted to find all the screens, well, now I can see all the screens.
And the same is true for if I wanted to find em that screen.
Oh, OK.
Now I can fuzzy search map out screen and I can kind of navigate my code base in a smarter way with
that.
Now let's look at kind of how we're going to build out this animation.
So there's two things we need to do.
Well, we need to import the animated API from Riak native and we're going to have a ref and also import
react as we always do.
Then we're going to export the concept, fade in view, which is going to be the name of our animation
here.
And we're going to give it a duration standard of one point five seconds or a second and a half.
Then what we'll do is we'll return the animated view similar to what they're doing on the documentation.
And we're going to do the same type of Phedon where we're going to give it to the opacity, so we're
going to bind the opacity, the animated value, and this is the special animated view.
And with with this, we can basically now say, well, we can animate something into the view, now
we have to use animated that view because it's a special type of view that is animated.
So animated, just like style components, is exporting a view that has extra properties on it to allow
it to be animated.
And we'll wrap things with this feed in view in order for them to start feeding in.
Now, you can see here we still need to declare our fate animation, which we're going to do.
Like this, we're going to say consed fate animation is equal to use ref of a new animated value, zero
about current, and then we're going to also put in place a use effect that is going to allow us to
transition that value from zero to one.
And by doing this, we can then allow the animated hook to animate itself.
But we also need to add in duration just in case if duration were to change as a prop, that we re trigger
the effect to properly interact.
OK, so now that we have our feet animation, well, where are we going to put it so we could put it
in a bunch of places?
We could put it around a ton of different things.
I was thinking, for instance, if we go into well, let's say let's say we go to our actual features
and we said on the screens we have restaurants that screen here.
We could easily import a feed animation over here.
First of all, let's get rid of our flat list here, get rid of some of the errors.
And what we can do is next to importing safe area.
We can import feed in view and we can import that from the animation's.
So we have to do is remove this component animation feed.
And by importing the feed in view now, we can wrap inside of our safe area.
To feed the entire view.
And if we go look at that, if we go to restaurants.
Well, what's happening?
Well, let's reload quickly and what we'll see here is, oh, you can see that fade into view, but
it's kind of breaking the rest of the animation.
So maybe we shouldn't put it right there, but maybe we should rather put it specifically around our
restaurant list so that our restaurant list will fade into view.
Because we don't want our animation to break the rest of our application.
And by doing this, we now allow ourselves the room to.
Create that animation effect without breaking the rest of the UI, so as we can see here now, our animation
of it didn't fade into view, did it?
Well, why is that?
Well, it's because the FT interview has actually already rendered at this point.
So how do we go about this?
Well, maybe we should put it a little deeper.
Maybe we should put it around the restaurant info card.
So let's try that.
If we put it around the restaurant info card, will that affect the restaurant info card?
Let's see.
So let's put it around here and by doing this, oh, OK, now the fate animation is coming in and every
single card itself is feeding itself into view, which creates this pleasing effect of it coming in
and where you put the animation.
This is why I wanted to showcase this.
Where you put the animation may affect whether or not it occurs, whether or not it breaks other things
in the layout.
So picking the right spot, it's fairly important.
And if we go over, here's the settings, we can put it in a bunch of different spots.
But basically what we want to achieve here is the ability for you to be able to use this feed into view
and put it in certain places to create that aesthetic.
Now, with that, we've created a lot of Polish to our application because the main feature that you
are greeted with as a user now has this aesthetically pleasing thing where it comes into view and you
have this nice effect guiding you into the restaurant.
Less than that feeling, that user experience is extremely important for keeping users engaged.
OK, so now that we have that in place, what else do we need to do?
Well, do we have any errors?
Do we have any LINTANG errors?
Doesn't seem like it.
So with that, we've now added a very good level of Polish to our application.